>> [BACKGROUND MUSIC] And
I think many people today
don't know what to
believe anymore.
>>People are basically
going to keep on
to help uncover what
really happened.
>>I felt like something
was watching me.
>>We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
>>GEORGE NOORY:
Well, as you know,
Captain Kirk once said,
"Space, the final frontier."
But is it?
So much is going on in
this planet that requires,
of course, incredible research
and in depth work by humans.
And we've got Bob Zimmerman
here on "Beyond Belief"
to talk about, not only
things going on up there,
but things that are
going on right here.
Bob, welcome to "Beyond Belief."
>>ROBERT ZIMMERMAN: My pleasure
to be here again, George.
>>NOORY: By the
way, I should say,
your book, "Genesis, The story
of Apollo 8," now available,
high technology, it's an ebook.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Ebook,
that's right.
People can get it in ebook.
And the good thing about the
ebook is images are in color,
you get all the images, you
get, in fact, additional things
from the hardback edition, so.
I put a new forward in
there, and it's good stuff.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
>>ZIMMERMAN: It's-- technology
is a great thing, George.
>>NOORY: What got you
so interested in space?
>>ZIMMERMAN: Well, from
the very beginning,
I'm into exploration.
That's what I'm into.
And exploration is
not just simply going
where no one has
ever gone before.
Though space epitomizes that.
Exploration is answering
questions that are a mystery.
So for example, scientists
doing research in a laboratory,
they're going where no
one's ever gone before.
They're trying to solve
a mysterious problem.
So, that's one of the reasons
I have a real fascination
for science.
I'm a science journalist, I do
writing on that kind of stuff.
Because they are
on the cutting edge
as well, though it
might not appear so,
going to the
laboratory every day,
and working on a
computer every day.
But there are unknown questions
that need to get answered,
and as I've said, my
website's Behind the Black,
and that's trying to
answer those questions that
are hidden behind the black.
And the black is mystery.
The universe, the reality
of the universe in some ways
is a veil.
And human beings, we
have to work our utmost
to lift that veil.
To see what's hidden behind.
And so, that's what got me in
space, because space epitomizes
that search for the unknown.
But it's one of
the reasons I write
about science and other things.
Because they are doing
the same kind of things.
It's why I like to
go caving, George.
Caving, I get to go where
no one's ever gone before.
And it's geology.
>>NOORY: That's true.
That's a different
world down there, too.
>>ZIMMERMAN: It's a different
world, but at the same time,
it's the same thing.
Because you're
pushing that envelope.
Not only just going to
get to go places no one's
ever gone before,
but the geology.
Learning something about how a
cave forms is a question mark,
and how do you answer
that question mark.
And that's just fascinating
to study and learn.
So that's what
got me into space.
>>NOORY: Have we lost
the glamour of space?
I mean, I remember July, 1969,
hovered around the television
with my dad, watching Neil
Armstrong setting foot
on the moon.
That was historical.
But then later on,
even the networks
lost interest in missions.
They just weren't
interested anymore.
Are we at that point today?
I mean--
>>ZIMMERMAN: Absolutely not.
>>NOORY: What would
rejuvenate us?
To get national interest again?
>>ZIMMERMAN: There is a
schizophrenia, a split
personality within the United
States nation, in our culture.
There is an
intellectual disinterest
in this kind of thing.
But I think the general
public of the United States
is passionate for
exploration of all kinds.
That's why science is a
top interest people have.
You know, before
the web existed,
the mass media was very limited,
and they had their interests,
and they weren't interested
in some of this stuff.
But the public was interested.
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>ZIMMERMAN: And when
the internet came along,
suddenly the mass
media had to shift
and cover this stuff again,
because suddenly everyone
was going to the internet to
get the information, and not
to them.
For years they would not cover
space exploration at all.
They would just not cover it.
And then, NASA sends a little
Rover to the moon, Pathfinder.
Sojourner.
And they set up a web page.
And within the first two
days of that Rover's landing,
that web page got
a billion hits.
And suddenly-- and that tells
you what the real interest was.
Just because editors at
mainstream television networks
and newspapers don't
want to cover a subject,
doesn't mean we don't
have that interest.
>>NOORY: Good point.
>>ZIMMERMAN: And
the fact that there
are many people willing to
give very large sums of money
to Richard Branson
at Virgin Galactic
to fly suborbital
flights, tells me there
is a great deal of interest.
That we haven't lost this.
There are a lot of fuddy
duddies who have lost it.
But they're irrelevant
to the game.
The public and the
American culture
is into exploration
of our galaxy.
>>NOORY: I mean, it's exciting
how the Mars 1 group wants to--
>>ZIMMERMAN: One way mission.
>>NOORY: A one way
mission to Mars.
Would you do that?
>>ZIMMERMAN: No, I
wouldn't do that.
>>NOORY: Neither would I.
>>ZIMMERMAN: No,
but, you know, and I
think none of the people
who volunteered seriously
took it-- they did it to support
the idea of going to Mars,
not so much going one way.
>>NOORY: They
probably don't think
they're going to be picked.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Yeah.
And even if they
are picked, they
don't expect it to happen as a
one way mission, and that's OK.
The idea is to support
the idea of doing
great and wonderful things.
>>NOORY: It's an amazing planet.
It's an amazing universe.
But it's an amazing mind of a
human being that gets us there,
isn't it?
>>ZIMMERMAN: Yeah.
We-- human beings are imperfect.
We're not perfect creatures.
We recognize that
we're imperfect,
and we cannot become perfect.
But what makes us really
noble and interesting
is that we strive
for perfection.
We still strive to be perfect,
even though we can't do it.
So perfection involves striving
to find out what's the unknown.
Pushing the envelope.
You know, doing things that
have never been done before.
Being a race car driver, trying
to drive a vehicle faster
on the ground than
anyone's ever done it.
Or Felix Baumgartner,
going up as high as he can,
and then doing a parachute
jump from space, essentially.
>>NOORY: Yeah, with
his camera on his head.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Yes.
I mean, but people are
willing to do things
because they want
to push the envelope
and try to do things that
have never been done before.
To reach beyond.
That's what humans are like.
>>NOORY: There is
an argument brewing
on this planet about
climate change.
The argument is right
down the middle.
You've got a group of people
who believe that mankind
is creating this disaster
of climate change.
And then you've got a camp
out there, which includes me,
>>ZIMMERMAN: Includes me.
>>NOORY: That
believes that we're
going through Earth's cycles,
that these things have
happened, will happen, and
that's just the way it is.
Now, is mankind
contributing to pollution?
Absolutely.
We need to clean
up the environment.
There's no doubt about that.
But in terms of pure
Earth climate change,
I think we're in a cycle.
And I think the planet
just continues to do this.
>>ZIMMERMAN: The thing
about climate science,
I've written about this
quite a bit, George.
Is that, it is science, but it's
an incredibly uncertain science
right now.
The amount of information
that scientists
have about what's going on with
our climate is very limited.
They really do
not yet understand
the climate in great depth.
We only began studying
the climate in great depth
with the onset of the space age.
Because prior to that, we
didn't have a good reading
of what the sun's
radiation output was--
>>NOORY: Right, we didn't
have the satellites available.
>>ZIMMERMAN: We didn't
have the satellites.
We didn't know what
the Earth's climate
numbers were really like.
So it's only since
like 1978 that we
started to get really good
numbers about climate.
So for anyone right now to state
that the science is settled
is downright lying.
I have to say that.
So you say there are two camps.
And I think the camps really
divide up into two groups,
very different than
how you described it.
You've got the scientists
group, the real scientists, who
are skeptical, who
understand the uncertainties.
Some believe human
behavior is a danger--
>>NOORY: And not very vocal.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Yeah.
And, but should be truly
dealt with, but are skeptical.
Some-- this is all in
that scientific group--
and then you've
got the politicos
in the science world, who
are corrupting the science.
And this is something I really
want us to discuss here.
Because they're
corrupting the science.
It's not just simply that
the science is unsettled,
there are actually
scientists out there
right now that have
committed fraud
to make it look like one, the
climate is warming more than it
is, and to make it look like
humans caused more of it
than they did.
And this has been now
documented several times.
And I've brought you some of
that information because it's
very clearly shown that
it's not just simply
there's a debate between
scientists about what
this uncertain science is about.
There are some scientists who
want to squelch the debate
and have included
fraudulent data to try
to squelch that debate.
>>NOORY: But why try to
perpetrate the fraud?
What are they getting out of it?
>>ZIMMERMAN: It's a mixed thing.
Some of them are just
emotionally passionate,
and they fear humans are
causing the climate to warm.
They just sincerely
believe that.
But good intentions
are the road to hell.
And some of them have
too many intentions,
and are too passionate,
and therefore
have lost the ability to calm
down, and be good scientists,
and look at the data.
That's part of it.
Part of it is money.
The real money in
the climate field
right now is supporting
global warming.
Because governments are backing
that conclusion aggressively
with big research funds.
So if you come out
and say well, the data
isn't really showing
heavy global warming,
you're not gonna
get the grant money.
>>NOORY: You won't
get the funding.
>>ZIMMERMAN: You'll
have a great deal
of difficulty getting
the grant funds.
And there is a, unfortunately,
a peer pressure situation
now in that
scientific community,
forcing scientists to come out
in favor of global warming.
I can't tell you the
number of scientists
who were in this field, who when
I wanted to ask them questions
about this debate,
would get reluctant,
and then some of them actually
would leave the field.
They'd go off and
do other research
because this is too
touchy, and too hard.
And they don't want
to do bad science,
so they'd rather get out of
the field of climate field.
>>NOORY: Is it a hot potato?
>>ZIMMERMAN: It's
a very hot potato.
You have cases where scientists,
for example, NOAA and NASA.
And we have a
graph to show this.
NOAA and NASA have actually
taken old climate surface data
from the '30s.
In the '30s, the data had
shown that the climate had
gotten warm for a period of
time, and then cooled off.
Well, in the last decade,
if you look at the data now,
suddenly that warm
period has disappeared.
Instead, it's kind of
like a straight line.
And then it gets warm again.
What they've done is they
adjust the numbers consistently,
in NOAA and NASA,
to make it appear
as if the climate
is only warming now.
And that's to fuel the debate--
>>NOORY: Sure.
We're doing it.
>>ZIMMERMAN: That
the Earth is warming,
and the fossil fuel
industries are putting
carbon dioxide in
the atmosphere,
and therefore, the
climate is warming.
We have to do something.
But it's actually a manipulation
of the data, and fraudulent.
Similarly, you have a
guy like Michael Mann.
He's a scientist, he's
a climate scientist.
He came up with something
called the "hockey stick graph."
What does the hockey stick mean?
>>NOORY: Yeah, what
does a hockey stick
have to do with climate change?
>>ZIMMERMAN: Well, his hockey
stick graph, basically starting
from the year 1000, shows
that the Earth's climate was
basically no change.
It fluctuates, but
basically pretty level.
No warming at all.
At all.
Until suddenly around
1800, when fossil
fuel industrial
revolution began.
And then suddenly, boom.
You get a warming.
And that's a hockey
stick, right?
Well, it's an outright fraud.
And many scientists
know this data is false.
For one thing, incredible
amounts of data
exist that documents that
in the year around 1000,
you had a period of what they
call the medieval warm period.
So the hockey stick had
a bump going up and down.
>>NOORY: But he
didn't show that.
>>ZIMMERMAN: He
And then, around 1600, during
a period when we had no sun
spots, by the way--
>>NOORY: And no industry.
>>ZIMMERMAN: No, and
no real industry,
you have something
called the Little Ice
Age, where the
climate went down.
The hockey stick
had a bump down.
He doesn't show that.
He smoothed it out, except
for the Industrial Revolution.
>>NOORY: On purpose.
>>ZIMMERMAN: On-- well, that's
an interesting question.
He would claim no.
The data shows this.
But other people have
taken his raw information,
and the algorithms he used
to produce that hockey
stick, and they've put
random data in of all kinds.
And no matter what data you
put into his algorithms that
produced his hockey stick-- no
matter what data you put in,
you get a hockey stick.
So, he's actually created a
situation where no matter way
data comes up, it's
a hockey stick.
That's fraud.
It's outright fraud.
In addition, and this is
very important about this,
in addition, the people who
put this hockey stick graph
together-- and this hockey
stick graph was put together
for something called the
IPCC, The International Panel
for Climate Change.
It's a UN panel, it
issues a report--
>>NOORY: Very vocal.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Very vocal.
It issues a big report
every five years or so.
Right now, they're issuing the
newest report at this moment.
But when they issued their last
report in '07, it included this
hockey stick graph.
Interestingly enough,
that hockey stick graph,
what it does, is it shows many
different proxy informations
for data.
Things like tree ring data,
solar data, temperature data,
surface data, satellite
data on the climate.
So it shows many different
lines, different colors,
for all these datas.
And once again, his
hockey stick shows
that as you get towards the
20th century, all of them
seem to point up.
But interestingly enough,
the tree ring data,
you can see this, like,
it's a yellow amber line,
it goes bouncing around.
It starts to go up, and then--
it's like a spaghetti graph.
There's lots of little
lines on top of each other.
>>NOORY: Offshoots.
>>ZIMMERMAN: It kind of
disappears into the graph.
That's the published hockey
stick you see published.
Well, some scientists
did some research
and discovered that if you
took that tree ring data
out, and just published
that line by itself,
it didn't just go up.
It then suddenly went down.
The last 30, 40
years, tree ring data
is not showing the
climate warming.
It's showing the
climate cooling.
>>NOORY: And how did
they explain that?
>>ZIMMERMAN: What they did
is they didn't explain it.
This is where the
phrase from the climate
gate emails, "hide the
decline" comes from.
What these guys actually did,
and it included Michael Mann
and a few other scientists
like Philip Jones--
>>NOORY: And they clearly
knew the decline was there.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Yeah.
They knew the data
showed this decline,
but that decline would disprove
the theory of global warming.
Or it would raise
great questions
of the uncertainties
of the science.
So what did they do?
They took it out.
They just simply took it out.
>>NOORY: Just take it out.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Took it out.
So therefore, data that was
actually being obtained--
>>NOORY: You don't want to
explain it, take it out.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Take it out.
Well, you can't do
that in science.
That's outright fraud.
That's not how science works.
Science works, you
gather the data,
and you develop your
theories from the data.
All right.
Similarly, the IPCC published--
in their IPCC reports,
they published a graph
showing all the computer
models of what's going
to happen down the road.
And all these computer models--
they're squiggled lines,
and they show that the climate's
going to start warming.
The lines go up, the lines go--
They have like, there's about
72 different climate models,
computer models, that
have been developed,
saying the same thing.
All of them showing
some variation.
The climate is going
to warm significantly.
And these were from the
reports of the IPCC in '90,
in '94, in '97, in 2001.
All those early IPCC
show these graphs
showing the temperature's
going to rise significantly.
Well in 1998, the
temperature stopped rising.
And so, while all the models
show these squiggly lines
going up.
Well, in '98, suddenly the
climate started to be stable.
And we've had now for almost 18
years, no significant warming
at all.
So the graph, when you look
at this, you suddenly see,
well, gee.
Scientists who are certain the
science is settled, that models
show it's going to get warmer.
But then when you look at the
satellite and surface data,
those models are 100% wrong.
Now, if you're doing good
science, what do you do then?
You throw the models out.
You write new
models that will try
to explain why this
climate hasn't changed.
Well, that's not what's
happened in the climate field.
What instead happens
now in the climate field
is a refusal to accept the data.
>>NOORY: They would see
that, and throw it out.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Throw the data out.
Well now, how can
you have good science
in a situation like this?
This is a major problem
the climate field has.
For example, Phil Jones.
He's a guy in charge of what's
called the Climate Research
Unit in England.
And this is a guy who, for
decades, has been gathering
surface data of the
Earth's climate.
Oceans, surface data, weather
station data on the continents.
It is his data that Michael
Mann used in the hockey
stick to show that in
the last 200 years,
the climate has
warmed significantly.
Well, the scientist
asked him, look.
This is science.
We would like to
confirm your data.
Could you give us your raw
data so that we can check it?
For years, he refused.
They actually had to go to
Freedom of Information Act
demands to get the data.
And at that point, he
admitted, well, I lost it.
>>NOORY: I lost it.
>>ZIMMERMAN: That's the quote.
That's his exact words to the
Freedom of Information demand.
The data has been lost.
It doesn't exist anymore.
The raw data.
So, all of--
>>NOORY: Unacceptable.
>>ZIMMERMAN: It's unacceptable.
And he is actually quoted
in almost every science
report you can imagine.
His papers are reported.
But every one of his
papers is unreliable
because his surface data is not
available to other scientists
to check and confirm.
There is very big corruption
in the climate field right now,
and it has to be
addressed, and it
has to be addressed
hard by the citizenry.
Now this doesn't say
that climate change
and global warming
might not be happening.
I'm not arguing that point.
There are question marks.
There is no question
that we are increasing
the amount of carbon
dioxide in the atmosphere.
There's no question of that.
But how much influence
it has on the climate
is an unknown right now.
And it's even more of an unknown
because too many scientists
in that field have
been willing to corrupt
the field for the
sake of politics,
rather than let
the data lead us.
>>NOORY: Speak for itself.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Speak for itself.
>>NOORY: How can
we be getting off
the coldest winter in 20
years if the climate is
supposed to be getting warmer?
I don't get it.
>>ZIMMERMAN: This is-- you're
asking a very good, skeptical,
scientific question.
According to the global warming
models, all 72 climate models--
all of them based on this
theory of carbon dioxide
causing the temperature
to warm-- as the carbon
dioxide rises, the
temperature's supposed
to rise in lockstep with it.
Well, it hasn't.
For the last 18 years, 17
years, we've seen no warming.
And like you say,
the last few winters
have been brutal
winters, worldwide.
Not just in the United States.
>>NOORY: And the
coldest in 20 years.
>>ZIMMERMAN: So there's
a question here.
Then what is really going on?
Well, we don't know.
This is good science.
The sun might be
a factor in this.
It might be.
We don't know.
There could be other factors on
the ground, volcanic activity,
we don't know.
This is an unknown.
Good science means, well,
now we have this data,
follow the data, and let's
come up with better models.
>>NOORY: Let's come up
with some solutions.
>>ZIMMERMAN: And we're
not doing that right now.
That's the problem.
In fact, the worst
part of this right
now is that too many
scientists right now
are willing to--
if anyone raises
skeptical questions, this
is the basis of science,
is skepticism.
It's now become a dirty
word in the climate field
to be called a skeptic.
But that's the
highest honor you can
give a scientist,
to be a skeptic.
And in fact, it's even
worse than that now.
A lot of climate scientists
will call a skeptic
a climate denialist.
They're using this--
they took the word
from holocaust denialists.
The people who want to make
believe that the holocaust
during World War II--
>>NOORY: The Doj-- Dinejads.
>>ZIMMERMAN: That's right.
It did not happen.
And they're now applying
it to scientists
who are just simply being
skeptical about global warming.
That is a terrible thing
for the field of science.
It makes it very difficult
for science to function right.
Because for science
to function right,
the thing that counts
most is the data.
And the data, if the
data finds-- you find out
you're wrong, then you have
to change your theories
immediately.
You know, it's
like, the theory was
the earth was the center
of the universe, right?
That was the theory.
The data seemed--
Ptolemy, it seemed
to say that was the
correct solution.
Well, the data started
to show that was wrong.
Well then, you don't
say the data was wrong,
the earth is still the center.
You say like
Copernicus, no, we have
to rechange the theories
to fit the facts.
And in this case,
the climate field
is struggling
because there are too
many people with power
in it that are not
allowing the data
to rule right now.
It's a very big problem.
>>NOORY: You brought
us some graphics.
We just looked at
the hockey stick.
Tell me about this.
What is that?
>>ZIMMERMAN: You
can see right here,
all those squiggles going up
are the predictions of how
the climate was going to go.
This was all the predictions.
These were all written in the
'90s and in the '00s by climate
scientists who said carbon
dioxide was going to increase
the climate, and you're seeing
how the climate was going
to increase in the '00s, and
in the '20s, and in the '30s.
>>NOORY: It's dramatic.
>>ZIMMERMAN: It's dramatic.
Look how the lines go up.
But look at the two
lines near the bottom.
The kind of darker brown
and the greenish line.
>>NOORY: Kind of like
going across the plane.
>>ZIMMERMAN: That's
the actual data.
That's the actual satellite
and Earth's surface data.
Now, the bottom
line here is, OK,
that means every one of
those models is garbage.
They don't predict the future.
In fact, they didn't
predict the past either.
If you were to take
those computer models
and plug it into the
temperature in 1900,
and then ask those computer
models to predict what
the weather was in
the 20th century,
none of those models
20 years ago--
>>NOORY: They would
not have done that.
>>ZIMMERMAN: They
would not predict
what the weather actually was.
>>NOORY: Are you saying all
these scientists are doing this
fraudulently?
>>ZIMMERMAN: Some of
this is not fraudulent.
I'd say a significant
portion of that research work
with that graph
is not fraudulent.
It's-- some people think,
well, carbon dioxide increases,
it's going to increase the
warmth of the atmosphere.
So they produce a climate model.
The fraud is when you refuse--
when the data tells you it's no
longer working--
>>NOORY: And you ignore it.
>>ZIMMERMAN: You ignore it.
That's the fraud.
What you should do
then is say, all right.
We have to rewrite that model;
it's not working anymore.
And this is the problem
now in the climate field.
They don't want to deal with
the failure of their models
right now.
The IPC's has just issued
its most recent report.
And buried in that report are
good scientists' statements
that our models aren't working,
the climate isn't warming.
We've got to deal with it.
But in the main
executive summary,
IPC says, we're
even more certain
the climate is
warming right now.
We're now 95% certain
the climate is warming.
Well that's fraud.
That's not looking at the data
and coming to conclusions.
That's I decided what
the conclusion's going
to be, and to hell
with the data.
>>NOORY: And what's
their bottom line?
What do they get out of
convincing the planet
but the climate is warming,
and it's being warmed by man.
>>ZIMMERMAN: It's
called fear mongering;
it's called power play.
A lot of these people are
doing it for political reasons.
Not the scientists.
You know, a lot
of the scientists
who are playing this game
are working hand in glove
with politicians.
Politicians now go
around fear mongering,
saying we're all going to
die from extreme weather
and from global warming.
And therefore, we
must pass laws that
are going to give us, the
politicians, more power.
And that's the bottom line.
Power.
A lot of the climate
change activity
was to literally force
power, centralize power
to government people.
And that's the other
part of the corruption.
>>NOORY: Is there big
money there for them?
>>ZIMMERMAN: There's big money,
but a lot of it's just power.
I mean, you know,
politicians are
interested in power and control.
And if they can get laws passed
that say, you have to obey us,
that we will tell
you how you can live
your life in every
way, shape, and form,
they get a little
kick out of that.
They like telling
people what to do.
>>NOORY: What about
the politician, Bob,
who would come forward and say,
folks, we're in massive climate
change, not caused by
man, this planet does it.
And if you look at
the historical graphs,
you will find that we will
have extreme cold, extreme hot,
droughts, hurricanes, tornadoes.
You name it, this planet
is going to have it.
And it could affect your life.
Plan for it.
I mean, what would we do
with someone like that.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Well, we
should vote them into power,
is what we should do.
Because they're giving
us a reasonable-- humans
are an adaptable species.
A friend of mine joked, you
know, the sea is rising.
In the '90s they said it was
rising 2 millimeters a year.
Now they say 3
millimeters a year,
there's actually some
questions about the change
there as well, there might
be fraud going on there.
But even at 3
millimeters a year,
it will take a century for
the oceans to rise a foot.
And a friend of mine once
joked, well you know,
we're not going to
stand on the beach
with the water lapping around
our knees, waiting to drown.
We'll do something about it.
It's not rising so fast
that we can't adapt.
And so, a good
politician shouldn't
be demagoguing the
issue right now.
They should be common sense,
thoughtfully, look the data.
Let the scientists tell
us what's happening.
And let's not try to push
politics and new laws
on the American citizenry
based on uncertain facts.
Any politician right
now that tells you
that the science is
settled is a liar.
A fraudulent liar.
A politician doing that
is doing it for power.
From either party--
political party.
It doesn't matter which.
And this is a problem that we
as Americans have to recognize.
The scientists themselves
within the community--
I'll give you another example.
There was a study
that came out, this
was where the 97% consensus
number comes from.
You know how many
scientists-- they
interviewed 1,000 scientists.
They discovered that there
was-- the actual opinions
of those 1,000 scientists
was like 50-50,
it was very confused.
So what this study
did is, it picked out
100 scientists that agreed
with global warming,
and said 97% of those think
global warming is happening.
And so, that's why
there's a 97% consensus.
The study was a fraud.
There have been other studies
that have looked at that fraud
and said that's not true.
There's no consensus
in the science field.
If you talk to climate
scientists themselves,
they're all-- the
good scientists
will tell you repeatedly,
"We don't know yet enough
to predict what's gonna happen."
Some of them think,
yes, the theory of human
caused global warming is a
concern and might be true.
Some of them will say
no, it isn't a concern.
But the good scientists
will say, well let's
look at the data and
try to figure out
which of those
theories is right.
The bad scientists
will say shut up.
>>NOORY: See, the
good scientists
will clearly know this
has happened before.
Before there were industries,
before there were cars,
we had high points
and low points.
It's the same.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Well now,
you see that, I'll
play devil's advocate here.
Yes, the climate, we've
had medieval warm period.
We've had the little ice age.
These things happen.
There's no question of that.
And the climate fluctuates,
there's no question of that.
But a good scientist is
going to look at the data.
And the data says
that carbon dioxide
is increasing in the atmosphere.
What is the consequence of that?
We don't know.
But as a good scientist, we
should be trying to find out.
We shouldn't be coming
to conclusions yet
because we don't
know enough yet.
And so that's where
the science really
is: figuring out
the consequences.
The consequences
might be very small.
The data suggests that they're
inconsequential, to be honest.
>>NOORY: Wasn't the planet
more robust with higher carbon
dioxide levels 100
million years ago?
>>ZIMMERMAN: There's an
interesting scientific fact
that climate scientists,
especially global warming ones,
don't want you to know.
And every climate
scientist knows this.
That they have good
proxy data that
shows carbon dioxide
going up and down
in the atmosphere over
millions of years.
Interestingly enough, they
also have good proxy data
that tells them the temperature
change is up and down.
Interestingly enough,
the temperature always
precedes the change
in carbon dioxide.
So the temperature
gets warmer, and then
the amount of carbon
dioxide increases.
That suggests that carbon
dioxide is following it.
It isn't the cause of
temperature changes.
That's at least what
past data suggests.
So that would then tell
you, well then, maybe it's
not going to be such
a significant thing.
The other thing
about carbon dioxide
is it's a trace element.
The real global warming element
in the atmosphere is water.
And in fact, we have
global warming right now.
It increases the temperature
by like 20 degrees.
If we didn't have water
in our atmosphere,
this planet would
not be livable.
We actually have global
warming right now.
It's a good thing.
But it comes from water.
Water is the main global
warming component.
Carbon dioxide is
a trace element.
It's such a small
component in the atmosphere
that there's good
data to suggest
it will never be
significant, possibly.
But, but, but, we are increasing
the amount in the atmosphere,
and as good scientists
and human beings who
want to be adaptable
and open minded,
we've got to look at that and
see does it have a consequence?
>>NOORY: Keep up the
good work, Robert.
>>ZIMMERMAN: Thank
you very much.
>>NOORY: Robert Zimmerman
on "Beyond Belief."
A different perspective,
but one you need to know.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."